ok so continuing on so we talked about
this code that has been
automatically generated by IntelliJ
let's start making some changes to it
now so first things first let's change
the title but before I do that lets just
run it again as a recap you can see it's a
very basic interface their its got hello world at
the top so to change title you probably guess how to do that we come
back here on to line 14 and change that to Hello JavaFX
...make that change and run it again and
obviously now on the title of the window is now
has been changed to Hello
JavaFX but let's make another change lets actually
get it to say Welcome to JavaFX within the
window instead of changing the title now
there's two ways to go about this we can
use code in the java code itself or we can
change the fxml file so I'm gonna show
you both ways but let's change the
application so that it doesn't use xml file at all instead will do everything
through code and then later on we'll go
back and look at the fxml so first
we going to do is we are going to comment out the load on line 13 because we're not
gonna be using the same fxml so comment that out
then we need to add the
code manually that's going to create
this grid pane node and it can be very
useful you to learn how to do this
way as well doing it manually and also learning to use the fxml
file so what we're going to do is type
in what is the equivalent code to what
was in the fxml file so type....
.....
......
....and in case your wondering on what am i
doing here looking back at the sample fxml file the code I'm typing is
effectively the replacement for this
setting the alignment to center
the horizontal gap to 10 and vertical
gap to 10 so we're doing that in code
here on line 18 to 20 so I've done that manually and
consequently there we've got a route
object so the rest there should work
so before we actually make a change
putting text in the window we should be
able to run this and get the same result
we had when we had the sample.fxml file so if we run that you can see we still got our window so we are now constructing a window
creating it without the fxml file and
incidentally I didn't really say what h gap or v gap was you can
probably guess it it's the horizontal
gap between columns in the grid that is what h gap
is and v gap is the vertical gap
between rows and grids and we set them both
to 10 because that what was set in the
sample.fxml for now you could certainly
experiment with different values if you wanted
to and the alignment itself determines
where the grid will actually sit
within the grid panes width and height
and the set alignment so we are using Pos.CENTER which again is the equivalent
of that alignment command that used that I showed you earlier from that sample.fxml so now that we got the same basis to
what we had before before I commented out the sample.fxml
file let's now add to that so what I'm going to do is add some code to add a label so to do that what I'm going to do
is come down to here and before the primaryStage.Show I'm gonna start typing the code in
their so lets type....noticing that is javafx.scene control and.....
.....we are using the javafx.scene as the
import......
...so it seems a bit cumbersome
to add but on line 27 that's what we need
to do any time we're adding a control
basically to our
scene that's the way it actually works
you need to use the root.get
children and .add and whenever the name
of the controllers we are adding we
need to put that code in before the
primaryStage.show so that it is
on screen and then
when we run it should actually work so if
we run this now and have a look and see
what's happened you we now got Welcome to
JavaFX showing within the window itself so
that's good that its has been added
automatically so closing that down let's
change it a little bit let's actually
change the color so to do that we're going
to come down here and type greeting will do that just
after the definition with declaration on
line 26 so....now noticing when it is asking
which import we want to make sure each time
you doing this that you are actually
importing the right one
JavaFX.scene.paint is the right package in this case so I'm gonna click
on that and I'm gonna use .green for this....we should be able to run again and see the text in
green you can see that their just focusing at it you can see it is now in green so
that's working that's good ok so let's
do something else now let's actually
change the font and make it bold and to
do this we need to call the set font
method and then we set the font we are going to set the font to Times New Roman as well
so how we do that we come down here to line 28 just after the set fill I'm
going to type
......
change the font set that to....so we are using a static method.....
and you can see on the screen their javafx.scene so we are getting you to be
making sure your imports are from javafx because you can see lots of different
choices their the so....
...and this is case sensitive so make sure you type it exactly as you see it and
we said we are gonna do it in bold so....
.....again making sure
that javafx.scene is selected
I'm just trying to get into the habit of
making sure your imports are using
JavaFX all the time so we specified bold you
might also want to change the font size
lets changed that to 70 so that's an
additional parameter so it's 70
....and once we do that we should be
able to run that again
so we run that and you can see that is now much larger
and we can expand this out and have a nice screen their
as you see on the middle their in green and is
now taking up a lot more space because
it's a much larger because we've use a larger font so
that's how to go about doing some coding
within the actual java code itself instead of
using the fxml file so I'm going to
close it down but let's have a look at
how to make the same changes using
fxml so what we gonna do is firstly
un-comment the fxml loader.load again
and we are gonna comment the other line that we actually introduced
so lets come up down here first and comment out all these
lines and we need do it in two parts so
comment out that first part first and then
down here we need to do those as well and the
add as well just to make it easier to read
I'm gonna come up here paste that at the top
there and let's put this code and down here as well
just so that it's actually separate and
its not gonna confuse us so basically all that code their on lines 26 to 34 was the code that we added
manually and I'm now going un delete or
remove the comments to make this valid
so we are now using the fxml file again
and just to confirm will run this we
should have our basic Windows showing
again basic window again and it is
showing Hello JavaFX and that's because we'd
still have made the code change on line 21
for the title but lets now go into the fxml file and make same changes we made
in code but using the fxml file and obviously the welcome isn't their anymore
because of course we deleted that code so in the sample.fxml let's make the same
change and to do that we leave the first
bit in the grid pane but within the
grid pane we come to the end here and we
actually add our label so now we can type.....
.....
...and notice how it automatically added another label for
us and we're going to the ending
label for us to close it off and will
leave that in their now so if we run it again we should see our greeting again Welcome to JavaFX
is showing on the screen again so that's
good you can see that's working now so
lets now set the font and text color
and sizes as well and to do that we need to put
that within the label section so we are gonna
start up by typing....
...and it adds the closing section
automatically and within their we need
to type....
......and notice how it did the import
for us you saw that change and...
.....
...but you will see here that font weight
it properly doesn't exist so this is one
case where the fxml differs from the
way we do it in code so what we gonna do
is delete the font weight property I'll show you the
alternate way to do it in
the fxml code you don't do it like that instead
what we do is we come back to
the font name change that to
....
you do it like that so the font weight is specified as part of the font
name when using the fxml and I guess
it's not too surprising and the reason I
say that is because when presenting
font choices some programs list the fonts
this way you may have seen that in Microsoft Word for argument sake but with that said its a little
unexpected which is the reason I wanted
to show you that and how things can
differ sometimes when you comparing the
code way of doing it versus the fxml way and
lastly let's also set the color so
we've actually defined the front but we
want to change the color of the lable
so how we do that well that's done in the
label sections and so we come down here after the end of our message we put.....
....
you notice that helpfully IntelliJ actually showing you the code and the actual causes it is going to be used so press enter for
that one and you'll may also have notice that shown the hex codes on the right hand side which is pretty cool as well so when we
run that now we should see something
very similar to what we had before
again we've got our Welcome expanded it out and there's
the same thing we've got using the fxml
file what we did earlier in
the video in Java code
interestingly enough when we define a UI
controller using fxml we can still change its property
Code and in fact that is often you
probably want to do so for example we
might want to enable or disable buttons
in response to a user action now we are gonna
cover how to work with controls to find
in the fxml in the later lectures just
to let you know so as you see we can
create the UI by creating the UI
control through code and setting their
properties and adding it to the
appropriate parents or we can do it
through if fxml now for the rest of the
JavaFX lectures we are gonna focus on the
fxml route the fxml forces
as two separate our UI from our business
logic and data and that is considered best
practice to define the UI through fxml as much as possible and for that reason
we are going to be doing that in this
section
now an exception to that would be the stage
the java runtime constructs for us
and passes the start method we have to
work within code that first part now another
good reason for defining UI controls in
fxml rather than through code is if
we decided we want to show how a UI controller
looks we don't have to touch a line of
Java code and that's pretty cool so when we
added the greeting to window and change
the color and font of the label using
fxml we didn't have to touch the main Java
file and one of the strengths of java
FX is that we can change how an
application looks without actually
changing a line of Java code which is
something we couldn't do previously
with swing which was the previous
GUI tool that java use to used so the
defining the UI using fxml is also
similar to how UIs are coded in
other types of applications like Android
which you may have seen if you've taken my
android course but also for Windows as
well
the concepts are the same and so
understanding and using fxml for our JavaFX
applications will give us a head start
when
it comes to learning how to code other
types of applications but I wanted to
show you that you can create UI
components using code but with that said we are gonna
stick with fxml whenever possible from now for the reason I have outlined earlier it is really the best
practice ok so that's been a really brief introduction to JavaFX so in the next video we are gonna start
taking a look at the JavaFX layouts I will see you oin the next video